# Workflow and Vigilia

Software documentation management systems face three long-standing
challenges: (1) Consistent software documentation synchronization with
system function, (2) Satisfy industry certification schemes, (3)
Document workflows required for project execution, collaboration
between software developers and reduce on-boarding time of new
developers.

Two complimentary software applications are introduced: Workflow and
Vigilia.  Together, they elaborate a multipolar view of the
implementation of a software documentation project while allowing
refinement during project development.

`workflow` automates the technical workflows required for project
development.  Its descriptions are based on system shell commands
through a set of configuration files.

Separation of project specific workflow configurations supports
collaboration between software developers through a shared git
repository.

The configuration files implement, automate, track and document the
execution of a series of system shell commands across machines used
for multi-role compilations, builds, tests and deployment.

A tester tool, `vigilia` isolates declarative test descriptions from
their execution.

These descriptions facilitate layering of the documentation levels
required for industry compliance and certification.

Specific features of test descriptions can be tagged for inclusion in
documents derived from the tests.

Combining these features guarantees a single “source of truth”
ensuring software system tests, documents and software functions
remain coherently synchronized.


## The Workflow Automation Engine

The workflow automation engine helps automating complicated system
shell tasks during the development of a software project.

Typical examples of workflow automation are running local and remote
shell commands with arguments and options that are hard to remember,
to compile source code on a build server, to convert documentation to
a web page, to flash a binary software image such as the Linux kernel
to a small or embedded device, or orchestrate the execution of command
sequences on different local, remote and virtual machines.

### Overview

The workflow automation engine offers the following functions:

- Easy to start a new project, new _targets_ and new _commands_.
- Integration with `bash` completion allows browsing project specific
  _targets_, project specific _commands_ and project specific
  _configuration_.
- Integration with `grc` for project specific _keyword highlighting_.
- Support for different _roles_ e.g. for remote execution, in a Docker
  container or a `tmux` session.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

The workflow automation engine uses `grc` for colorification of the
output and relies on [YAML](https://yaml.org/) for configuration
files.  It also has a dependency on the `File::chdir` perl module and
installation itself is done with `make`.  The Perl module to integrate
Python code into Perl is also required.


As an example, for an Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS jammy, install these
prerequisites:

```
sudo apt install automake
sudo apt install grc
sudo apt install libyaml-perl
sudo apt install libfile-chdir-perl
sudo apt install libinline-python-perl
sudo apt install make
```

Then clone the repository into a local directory:

```
git clone https://github.com/HugoCornelis/workflow-automation-engine.git
cd workflow-automation-engine
```

To generate a `configure` script, issue the command:

```
./autogen.sh
```

Then install the engine using `configure` and `make`:

```
./configure
make
sudo make install
```

`workflow` and `vigilia` are now installed on your system.


### Configuration

After installation new projects can be created.  Each project has its
own configuration for `grc` and `bash` (completion).  The
configuration of `grc` is found in its regular configuration directory
(see the man page of `grc` for more information) and shell aliases
make sure `grc` is invoked appropriately.

`bash` completion is dynamically generated by the workflow automation
engine when it is needed (when the user hits the <tab> key).

The `bash` completion script is generated automatically upon workflow
engine project creation (see below) and its invocation added to your
`.bashrc` file.

Combined this leads to this configuration in your `.bashrc` file for
each project:

```
alias neurospaces-workflow="grc neurospaces-workflow"
alias neurospaces-configuration="grc neurospaces-configuration"

. ~/projects/developer/source/snapshots/master/bin/workflow-files/neurospaces-bash-completion.sh
```

Note that this configuration is automatically generated.


## Starting a new `workflow` project

Starting a new workflow project with name *abcd* consists of these
steps:

1. `workflow builtin start_project abcd`

	Creates a workflow configuration for a new project with name
    *abcd*.

2. `mv workflow-project-template.pl workflow-project.pl`

	Renames the template project file such that the workflow engine
	recognizes it.

3. `workflow builtin install_scripts -- --engine --commands --git`

	Makes the configuration available from any directory.

4. `abcd-workflow --help-commands`

	Optionally shows the available commands for the project with name
    *abcd*.

5. `abcd-workflow examples_sh sh_single_command`

	By default the workflow engine installs a few commands that you
    can easily adapt to your needs.  This is one of them.  Use the
    `--dry-run` option to see exactly what commands would be executed,
    use the `--interactions` option to see the same commands based on
    the role which would execute them.

6. `abcd-workflow builtin add_target -- xyz "Add commands to this new target that do new things" --install-commands-sh`

	Adds the target *xyz* and creates a directory with a few template
    examples for you to adapt to your project.


## Starting a new `vigilia` project

<to be completed>

